Hi I just thought I'd talk very quickly about seeds.
When we look at the random module now the random model is part of the standard library and it provides
us a variety of functions to generate random numbers and random sequences or even pick things randomly
from sequences.
But one of the problems when we use random numbers in our code is that we don't get repeatability.
In other words if we run our program from one run to the next the random numbers that are generated
are different.
So if something goes bump and lets our program you know has a bug and it crashes somewhere it's very
difficult to reproduce because every time we were on the program it's a different random numbers and
we don't know if we're going to hit the same problem again or at least not at the same location in our
code.
So that really makes it difficult.
But the thing to remember with the random generators that are in the random model is that there is no
such thing as really random.
These are older rhythms that are meant to generate sequences of pseudo random numbers.
In other words they are generated via an algorithm.
So they're actually predictable to us when we look at what comes out of the random numbers.
It looks unpredictable which is great.
And furthermore you have the random numbers are relatively evenly distributed because that's really
the two things that we want.
We're looking for you know a pattern for what we're looking for a sequence of random numbers that doesn't
have a discernible pattern so it's not predictable.
And also is kind of evenly distributed.
So if we generate you know let's say the role of the dice then over time we expect that the 1 2 3 4
5 6 will come out approximately the same.
So kind of a uniform distribution.
In other words evenly so we do get that from the random module.
But there is some because it is an algorithm.
There is a way in which it generates those random numbers.
And the thing is that it depends on the seed value and the seed value is such that if we use the same
seed will generate the same sequence of random numbers.
So it's really not random at that point because once we've generated a bunch of random numbers we're
1 seed.
Technically we can predict the next time around what it's going to be.
And so we always set the seed randomly as well.
Very often by default anyways.
The sea is just the system time.
So that way we have a different seed.
And so there's a different sequence of random numbers of pseudo random numbers that get generated.
But for our code for debugging purposes being able to set the seed to a specific number and then run
our program again and again with that same seed means that we have the same sequence of random numbers
being generated.
So that's great for debugging purposes.
Of course once we go into production we need to remove that you know unless there's a need for it but
typically will remove that constant seed value and just let it use the you know the system time or something
else if we want to set the seed.
So let me show you what I mean.
That's the simplest.
So let's go ahead and import random and let's go ahead and just generate 10 random numbers.
So I want to run this 10 times.
I'm not interested in the actual it or you know the the index and the range.
So I'm using the underscore to show that I don't care and I'm going to use the rand end another rant
and is a function in random that will generate random numbers between 10 and 20 inclusive of 10 and
20 if you want to use something else.
We'll look at the range that will essentially generate random numbers but not inclusive of the upper
bound.
In this case I just wanted to be inclusive to that.
I'm also going to just generate a float that's going to be between 0 and 1 exclusive of one.
And we'll do that 10 times.
So let's see what we get right.
So we get 16 17 15 17 and so on.
So these the other random numbers that we generated between 10 and 20 and these other random floats
that we generated between 0 and 1.
Now if I run this code again you'll notice that we have different values and your values will be different
than mine because they by default the seed that set when we run this is the system time.
We're not going to have the same system time.
You're not going to have the same sequence of numbers.
It looks random but let's go ahead now and set the seed so to do this we use random seed and I'm just
going to set it to zero we can set it to 100.
You can use a string.
I'm just going to use zero and now I'm going to take this code again and rerun it.
And as you can see we get a different sequence of numbers and if I run this again you'll notice that
I have a different sequence.
Well that's because when I set the seed I started generating 10 random numbers and 20 if we I if I include
the floats and then I generated another 10 and 10 random numbers.
But this is now the sequence that's being generated here is from the seed.
It's the first 20 random ends and the first 20 randoms.
If I really want this to look the same I have to reset my C before I run.
Now normally when you run your program if you put this at the top of your program it's going to reset
every time you run the program.
In this case I'm not resetting the Jupiter notebook.
So instead what I'm going to do is I'm going to take this.
Copy that here and take this piece of code and copy that here.
OK.
And now you'll notice that these numbers and these numbers are the same.
And now if I repeat this again you'll see that again I have the same sequence of random numbers.
OK both the integers and the random.
Now what's interesting is that we have some other functions in the random order all things like Shuffle
for example shuffle will basically take a sequence like a list and it will shuffle it in place.
If we use the same seed we'll we'll get the same shuffle effect.
So it will shuffle the same way.
So let's go ahead and create this function generate random stuff and we'll default on cede to none.
So if the seed is known then it will basically use the system time.
And if we provide one it will use that and I'm going to go ahead and create an empty list and to this
we're going to do a few things.
We're going to append five let's say random integers just like we saw before.
So we'll do random and let's say between 0 and 5
then what I'm going to do is use the shuffle.
So let me show you how that works.
Fourth I'm going to take a I'm going to make a list out of this string of three characters or characters
it's going to be a list a b and c..
Right.
Those three elements then I'm going to call random dot shuffle on the characters and then I'm going
to take that result which is going to be a list and I'm going to add it to my results so this is going
to be a list inside a list.
I'm not trying to extend results.
I'm just going to append to it so we could actually see the list itself.
OK.
And shuffle by the way doesn't in-place shuffle so characters has to be listed can't be a tuple for
example.
And there are other functions as well that are available in the random module.
For example we have this random gas which is going to return our random numbers but the distribution
is that of being a uniform distribution that's going to be a Galson distribution.
So let's just go ahead random gals and we'll use a mean of zero and a variance of 1.
So again if you don't know what gas is that doesn't really matter.
The point I'm trying to make is that the functions in the random module all use that seed.
So let's go ahead and run this and let's generate some random stuff and I'm not going to pass a seed
which means it's going to use the system time.
And what error do I have results daughter and.
Let's try that again.
OK.
So here is one result I can try running that again.
And of course my seat is set to the system time because I'm not specifying it.
I get different results every time.
This is just happenstance that it generated the same way if I run it again you'll see that I don't have
the same order.
But now let's run it with a seed value.
So if I run it this way I get a certain sequence of integers.
I get a certain order in the shuffled array the shuffled list and then I get a certain sequence of these
gassy Galson distributed on randoms.
So now let me run this again with the same seed.
And you'll notice that we have the exact same output.
We have the same random integers that were generated the same shuffle output was generated and the same
Galson numbers were generated.
Now obviously if I change the seed value to maybe let's say 100 I'm going to get a different right output.
In this case it just happened to be the same.
So let me pick another one let's say 50 K and this one came out to ABC and there's only so many ways
you can shuffle three elements so let me try something.
There we go see a B.
Right.
That's different from everything else.
So again the random integers are different.
The way it was shuffled was different.
And the Galson number output was different as well.
Now I can rerun this again with the same seed and you'll notice that I have the exact same output.
So as long as you use the same seed you'll have different output.
You'll have the same outputs.
If you change the seed you will have consistent outputs but it will be different different you know
based on different scenes.
Now what did I say earlier about having an evenly distributed set of random numbers.
Basically remember I said that if we use something like random and you know ran into grand range and
so on you get a sequence of integers that are uniformly distributed or close to uniformly distributed
as opposed to something like random gas which is going to give you something else.
So how would we all test that.
Well very simple.
We can generate a large number of integers in a range and then we can just do a frequency analysis of
each one we can count how many times each one occurs in the list.
So how would we do that.
Well very simple we can do it this way.
Let's say we're going to pass a list to this function call frequency analysis and we want to return
what we want to return a dictionary that's going to contain as keys the unique elements of ls t.
Right.
And then for the value I want to know how many times that element occurred in the list that's the frequency.
So we can do it this way we can say k and then we're going to look at L.L.C. that count.
We're going to count whatever that key is.
OK.
Now how do we get the keys.
Well the key is going to be in lists.
But obviously those same numbers can occur multiple times in the list.
So in this case I'm going to take a set.
So the set is basically going to limit my elements in ls t to just the unique ones.
Right.
And so here I'm using a dictionary comprehension.
So that's it.
That's pretty straightforward.
How do we generate that say 100 random numbers in the list.
Well we can use a list comprehension.
So let's use rand again and we'll go 0 to 10 and we'll do this in range let's say 100.
Get this nice.
Generated a list that contains 100 random integers.
There we go.
There they are actually.
PRINCE So it just Prince and one line.
OK.
So there we have these numbers they're all going to be between 0 and 10.
Right.
There's 10 over here and there's a zero over here and we can count how many times they occur basically
by looking at the set of LSD which gives us OK.
So we found 0 1 2 3 4.
So every number between 0 and 10 actually occurred at least once in this.
And then we want to know how many times that each one occurrence.
Well it's very simple.
We can use the LSD to count so we can say how many times that.
Let's say 1 occur it occurred ten times how many times that can occur.
It occurred 11 times.
And so this is what this frequency analysis function is doing for us.
So now we can go ahead and run frequency analysis of LSD and it tells us that OK's 0 happen four times
one ten times to ten times three seven times and so on 10 11 times.
So as you can see it doesn't look very uniform I mean four here and then we had 9 11 12 occurrences
of 9 but only four occurrences of 0.
Only two occurrences of four.
But you have to remember that going to be a uniform distribution over time.
So given enough numbers so we just need to make this much bigger.
So let's go ahead and do this.
And so we want to generate our random numbers between let's say 0 and 10 for that in range.
Now let's do it let's say a million times and let's see if we get something that looks a little closer
to a uniform distribution.
Those will take a little bit of time.
I'll let it run and fast forward the recording
actually wasn't that bad.
So there you can see that this is much closer.
Right.
Ninety one thousand two hundred thirty three ninety thousand six hundred thirty three.
Relatively speaking it's closer and we have a much more uniform distribution.
We could also look at doing relative frequencies of those.
Right.
Because if this is a dictionary let's say it.
Well not it is not.
If it is a dictionary so we can assign it to the value D that say to the label D.
So what do we have in Indeed.
Well we have this what do we want to do.
We want to do the relative I want to know as a percentage what it is for each one.
Well that's pretty straightforward right.
I could just simply do something like this.
Well the first thing I need to know is the total count.
So I'm going to say total equals some Deodato values right.
That's going to give me the total.
So the total of all these frequencies over here which matches the 1 million.
That's what we expect because we generated a million random numbers so summing up the frequency across
all the numbers that were generated should give us a million.
So that's good to know.
Now whether we want to do it we want to take each value and divide that and divide that by the total
and multiply that by 100 to get you know a percentage frequency.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And again we're just going to use a list comprehension.
Actually we're going to use a dictionary comprehension because I really want to get the key as well.
I want to know what the key was OK.
And here though I'm going to take whatever the values are going to be.
I want to divide that by the total and multiply by 100.
And this is going to be for p value indeed.
Items can follow at every item in the dictionary it comes back as a tuple of key value.
I can unpack it in the cube and K comma V and now I can reference k as the key and v is the value.
When I'm doing you know building the dictionary and as you can see we're getting about nine point something
percent for each one.
Nine point 1 1 9 percent 9 percent 9 percent 9 percent.
So it's a pretty uniform distribution.
Now of course you know doing this little function like we had over here wasn't too difficult to do.
But this is where it pays off knowing what's in the standard library because it's actually you know
this function is in the standard library and it is in the collections so we can say from collections
import counters.
So this is a class and the class basically we pass it the list and it will generate a subclass of dictionary
so counter is a subclass of dictionary and it will generate that for us.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
The a calendar.
And what do we want to pass through it.
Well we want to pass it that list.
So let's go ahead and say random got Rand end and.
Ten twenty four in range let's just generate 100000.
OK so is generate 100000 numbers and there we go.
All right we have that frequency distribution done for us.
So it's pretty handy and beats having to write it ourselves.
All right.
That's it for now.
And I'll come back to other functions in the random module in some upcoming videos.